hey guys Dave her asthma to have a
guitar school been away but now I'm back
thank you for the compliments on the
blue stuff this is responding to some of
those requests I want to show you some e
blue scales to cover the whole neck on I
like to get the most mileage out of a
scale as possible by playing it
essentially in three octaves instead of
just one position first of all want to
let you know that i am tuned to have
step flap is Annie
so if you want to tune to me you
probably may be a little out of tune I
just took this out of the case and I
need to change strings is one of my
gigging geeking guitars and my band
usually tunes a half step flap it's
actually fairly common to do that okay
hope you're in tune a e minor blues
scale first of all is based on the E
minor pentatonic scale which are the
notes e G a B and D and then they repeat
EEG so that's just one position if you
add a b-flat in there that's the flat
five in there then that's commonly
called the blues scale ok that's a blues
minor
now I did put a g-sharp in there we'll
talk about that a little bit that's the
major third now I like to do a lot of a
lot of looks like that that essentially
works over eight dominant 7 which the
corner playing here okay I wouldn't play
the G sharp if I was playing over us a
minor Lord you don't want to add the G
sharp is that's your major third anyway
but let's talk about that three octave
scale I digress here we go I'm going to
play the same note so we just talked
about eg a B flat B D and repeat but
we're going to do them in three octaves
first thing I want to do is just kind of
separate this thing into sections first
thing you do is play the opening and
then kind of forget about it then you're
going to play G on the 3rd fret a on the
5th fret we're stalling the sixth string
B flat on the 6th fret eat on the 7th
fret now we're going to change strings
and play the D on the 5th fret of the
5th string now we're now the scale
starts over again on e and plaguey on
the 7th fret of the 5th string G on the
5th fret of the 3rd 4th string a 7th
fret fourth string D flat 8th fret B 9th
fret D of change strings now seven
threat of the third string e on the
ninth fret of the 3rd string G on the
8th fret of the second string hey on the
10th fret B flat on the eleventh fret B
on me 12th fret D on the 10th fret of
the first string and II on the 12th for
the first string what is it let's do it
again
okay so the whole scale pattern again
okay three octaves I also recommend that
you try to use the same technique
ascending that I'm doing it seems to be
the most efficient if you work out your
own that's fine too 1 i'll show you two
one is sliding between the gea every
time and then playing leave on me and
then changing it again and then on your
dissension i like to slide down from the
B to the a
glossing over that B flat on the way
back down okay okay now we can add a
little off oh the second way to do that
is to just stretch your fingers okay add
a little flavor to that if we're playing
over a major chord or a dominant chord
like in blues you still want to use that
minor scale perhaps now I've done some
other licks like this before that major
3rd let's do that like a little slow
just standing here we go I'm going to go
play that descending scale when i get to
the g on the hammer on the G sharp
and I play the E on the ninth fret of
the 3rd string to send the scale do the
same thing yah to another octave lower
ok you're a bet it you can bend it you
can slide this dude yeah yeah
stupid
me
I
you
Oh
ok